Descriptions about the assigned body part.

Biceps, triceps, forearm descriptions

1.	Alternating dumbbell curl, biceps
Stand upright with a dumbbell in each hand with the palms of your hand facing your thighs. While keeping the upper limb stationary, curl the dumbbell and turn your palm 90 degrees at the beginning until forearm touches your biceps. Return to starting position and repeat with the other arm.

2.	Alternating hammer curl, biceps
Stand upright with dumbbell in each hand with the palms of your hand facing your thighs. While keeping the upper limb stationary, curl the dumbbell until forearm touches your biceps. Return to starting position and repeat with the other arm.

3.	Barbell curl, biceps
Stand upright while holding a barbell at shoulder width and palms supinated. Curl the barbell until forearms touch your biceps. Return to starting position and repeat. 

4.	Alternating preacher curl, biceps
Get a dumbbell with either arm and place the upper limb on top of a preacher bench or something with an incline. The starting position of this exercise is when the biceps is contracted or when forearm touches your biceps. Slowly lower the dumbbell until arm is fully extended. Return to starting position and repeat with the other arm after finish the reps for one side.

5.	Concentration curls, biceps
Grab a dumbbell with either hand and sit down on a flat bench. Spread your legs with knees bent and place the elbow of the arm with the dumbbell on same side of your inner thigh. Your arm should be fully extended and supinated. Curl the dumbbell until your forearm touches your biceps. Return to starting position and repeat with the other arm after finish the reps for one side.

6.	Dips, triceps
Go to a dip station; get into the starting position with arms fully extended and body at arm’s length. Slowly lower your body downward and keep your knees bent for balance. Your elbows should be close to your body and your torso should be upright. Lower your torso until there is a right angle between your forearm and upper limb. Push yourself back up to the starting position with your triceps. Repeat

7.	EZ-bar skullcrusher, triceps
Lie down on a flat bench with your arms pronated in a closer than shoulder width grip and fully extended holding an EZ bar. This will be the starting position, when your arms are perpendicular to the floor. Keeping the upper limbs stationary, lower the bar and stop right before crushing the skull. Lift the bar back to starting position by extending the elbow. Repeat.

8.	Dumbbell wrist curl, forearms
Grab a dumbbell with each of your hands in a pronated grip and place your forearms flat on a flat bench with your wrists on the edge. Your body will be in kneeling position. Curl the dumbbell upward and slowly lower your wrist back to starting position. Repeat. 

9.	Triceps Rope Pushdown, triceps
Attach a rope attachment to a high pulley and hold on to each ends of the rope with a neutral grip. Stand close to the pulley with a small bent forward, bring the upper limbs close to your body and perpendicular to the floor. This will be the starting position. While keeping the elbows stationary, push down the rope with your triceps until your arms are fully extended and perpendicular to the floor. Slowly return the rope back to starting position and repeat. 

10.	Close grip bench press, triceps
Lie down on a flat bench and set up like performing normal bench press but with closer grip. Lift the bar from the rack with your arms fully extended, this will be the starting position. While keeping the elbows close to the torso, slowly lower the bar until it touches the chest. Push the bar back up to the starting position using your triceps. Repeat. 

•	Squat, quadriceps
With a barbell on your upper back, move your legs and glutes downward as if sitting down in a chair and then stand back up. Make sure your knees don’t go past your toes and keep your back straight.

•	Front Squat, quadriceps
Have a barbell resting on your front shoulders and have your arms crossed in front of you to support it. Bend your knees and go downwards until your upper legs and calves form a 90-degree angle and then go up.

•	Deadlift, hamstrings
Have a barbell on the floor in front of you and bend down with your back straight so your hands can grasp the bar. Pull up the bar using your legs and back until you are standing completely straight up. Keep your shoulders back and chest outwards and don’t pull with your arms to ensure balance and proper muscular involvement.

•	Leg Press, quadriceps
Sit down on the leg press machine and have your legs slightly bent on the starting position. Remove the locks and then bend your knees until your legs reach a 90-degree angle. Push up on the weight with your legs until you are back to the starting position.

•	Lunge, quadriceps
Stand up straight with 2 dumbbells in your hands. Take a wide step with one leg while your other leg is almost touching the floor. Then stand up straight and repeat the wide step with your other leg. Keep your back straight and make sure your steps are long to stretch the muscle

•	Calf Raises, calves
Stand up with your legs slightly bent on the calf raise machine with the shoulder pads resting on your shoulders. Lift the heels of your feet up so you are standing on your tiptoes and then put your feet back down.

•	Leg Curl, hamstrings
Lie down on your chest with the movement pad resting on the back of your ankles. Push your feet towards your body to curl your upper leg and then move your feet back down to the starting position.

•	Leg Extension, quadriceps
Sit on the leg curl machine with the movement pad resting on the front of your ankles. Kick your legs up until they are straight and then move them back down.

Bench Press

-	Lie flat on the bench, Lift the bar out of the rack straight above your chest with arms locked. Come down slowly until the bar touches the middle of your chest. After a brief pause push the bar straight up while breathing out.

Incline Bench Press
-	Sit down on the bench with head rested on the seat. Lift the bar out above your chest. With elbows pointed straight slowly come down on your chest. After a brief pause lift the bar back above your chest.

Decline Bench Press
-	Secure your legs at the end of the decline bench and slowly lay down on the bench.  Hold the bar above you, with elbows pointed straight slowly descend until it touches your chest. After a brief pause return to starting position.

Chest Flyes
-	Lie down on a bench with elbows slightly bent. Slowly bring your arms down in an arc until you feel a stretch in your chest. Make sure to breathe in during this portion of the exercise. Afterwards return to starting position.

Dips (chest)
-	Hold your body at arms length above parallel bars. While breathing in lower your body with your chest slightly leaning forward (30 degrees). When you feel a stretch in your chest slowly breathe in and return to the starting position.

Deadlift, back
	Walk to the bar. Stand with your mid-foot under the bar. Your shins shouldn’t touch it yet. Put your heels hip-width apart, narrower than on Squats. Point your toes out 15°.
Grab the bar. Bend over without bending your legs. Grip the bar narrow, about shoulder-width apart like on the Overhead Press. Your arms must be vertical when looking from the front.
Bend your knees. Drop into position by bending your knees until your shins touch the bar. Do NOT let the bar move away from your mid-foot. If it moves, start from scratch with step one.
Lift your chest. Straighten your back by raising you chest. Do not change your position – keep the bar over your mid-foot, your shins against the bar, and your hips where they are.
Pull. Take a big breath, hold it and stand up with the weight. Keep the bar in contact with your legs while you pull. Don’t shrug or lean back at the top. Lock your hips and knees.

Barbell Rows, back
	Walk to the bar. Stand with your mid-foot under the bar. Don’t touch it with your shins. Medium stance, toes pointing out.
Grab the bar. Use a medium grip width. Narrower than on Bench Press, wider than on Deadlifts. Hold the bar low in your hands.
Unlock your knees. Keep your hips higher than on the Deadlift. Bend your knees but keep them back so the bar can’t hit them.
Lift your chest. Straighten your back. Don’t move the bar. Don’t drop your hips. Don’t squeeze your shoulder-blades together.
Row. Take a big breath, hold it and pull the bar against your lower chest. Lead with your elbows and pull them to the ceiling.

Lat Pull Down, back
	Sit at a lat pulldown station and grab the bar with an overhand grip that's just beyond shoulder width. Your arms should be completely straight and your torso upright. 
Pull your shoulder blades down and back, and bring the bar to your chest. Pause, then slowly return to the starting position.

Seated Cable Row, back
	Set the appropriate weight on the weight stack and attach a close grip bar or V-bar to the seated row machine.
Grasp the bar with a neutral grip (palms facing in).
Keeping your legs slightly bent and your back straight, pull the weight up slightly off the stack. You should be sitting straight upright with your shoulders back. This is the starting position.
Keeping your body in position, pull the handle into your stomach.
Pull your shoulder blades back, squeeze, pause, and then slowly lower the weight back to the starting position.
Repeat for desired reps.

arnold dumbbell press - Sit on an exercise bench with back support and hold two dumbbells in front of you at about upper chest level with your palms facing your body and your elbows bent. The starting position should look like the contracted portion of a dumbbell curl. Now to perform the movement, raise the dumbbells as you rotate the palms of your hands until they are facing forward.Continue lifting the dumbbells until your arms are extended above you in straight arm position. Breathe out as you perform this portion of the movement.After a second pause at the top, begin to lower the dumbbells to the original position by rotating the palms of your hands towards you. Breathe in as you perform this portion of the movement.Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.


arm circles - Stand up and extend your arms straight out by the sides. The arms should be parallel to the floor and perpendicular (90-degree angle) to your torso. This will be your starting position.
Slowly start to make circles of about 1 foot in diameter with each outstretched arm. Breathe normally as you perform the movement. Continue the circular motion of the outstretched arms for about ten seconds. Then reverse the movement, going the opposite direction.


car drivers -While standing upright, hold a barbell plate in both hands at the 3 and 9 o'clock positions. Your palms should be facing each other and your arms should be extended straight out in front of you. This will be your starting position.Initiate the movement by rotating the plate as far to one side as possible. Use the same type of movement you would use to turn a steering wheel to one side. Reverse the motion, turning it all the way to the opposite side.
Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.

Face-pull - Facing a high pulley with a rope or dual handles attached, pull the weight directly towards your face, separating your hands as you do so. Keep your upper arms parallel to the ground.


Dumbbell shoulder press - While holding a dumbbell in each hand, sit on a military press bench or utility bench that has back support. Place the dumbbells upright on top of your thighs. Now raise the dumbbells to shoulder height one at a time using your thighs to help propel them up into position. Make sure to rotate your wrists so that the palms of your hands are facing forward. This is your starting position. Now, exhale and push the dumbbells upward until they touch at the top. Then, after a brief pause at the top contracted position, slowly lower the weights back down to the starting position while inhaling. Repeat for the recommended amount of repetitions.


Standing Military Press - Start by placing a barbell that is about chest high on a squat rack. Grab the barbell (palms facing forward) grip. Make sure to grip the bar wider than shoulder width apart from each other.
Slightly bend the knees and place the barbell on your collar bone. Lift the barbell up keeping it lying on your chest. Take a step back and position your feet shoulder width apart from each other.
Once you pick up the barbell with the correct grip length, lift the bar up over your head by locking your arms. Hold at about shoulder level and slightly in front of your head. This is your starting position.Lower the bar down to the collarbone slowly as you inhale. Lift the bar back up to the starting position as you exhale.
 
Alternating Deltoid Raise - In a standing position, hold a pair of dumbbells at your side. Keeping your elbows slightly bent, raise the weights directly in front of you to shoulder height, avoiding any swinging or cheating.Return the weights to your side.On the next repetition, raise the weights laterally, raising them out to your side to about shoulder height.Return the weights to the starting position and continue alternating to the front and side.
 
 
 
Anti-Gravity Press - Place a bar on the ground behind the head of an incline bench. Lay on the bench face down. With a pronated grip, pick the barbell up from the floor. Flex the elbows, performing a reverse curl to bring the bar near your chest. This will be your starting position.To begin, press the barbell out in front of your head by extending your elbows. Keep your arms parallel to the ground throughout the movement.Return to the starting position and repeat to complete the set.
 
Single-Arm Linear Jammer - Position a bar into a landmine or securely anchor it in a corner. Load the bar to an appropriate weight.Raise the bar from the floor, taking it to your shoulders with one or both hands. Adopt a wide stance. This will be your starting position.Perform the movement by extending the elbow, pressing the weight up. Move explosively, extending the hips and knees fully to produce maximal force.
 
Side Laterals to Front Raise - In a standing position, hold a pair of dumbbells at your side. This will be your starting position.Keeping your elbows slightly bent, raise the weights directly in front of you to shoulder height, avoiding any swinging or cheating.At the top of the exercise move the weights out in front of you, keeping your arms extended.
Lower the weights with a controlled motion.On the next repetition, raise the weights in front of you to shoulder height before moving the weights laterally to your sides. Lower the weights to the starting position.


